[wind whistling]
[footsteps approaching]
[jet engine roaring]
[loud thud]
There's nowhere to go
where I can't follow, Trion.
As I have said before,
I am worthy of the Matrix.
Whoever the Matrix chooses
as the next Prime
will need far more than brute strength
and arrogance, Sky Lynx.
[loud thud]
Power is for those who take it!
Real power is earned.
I'm sorry you don't understand that.
[growls] You will give me the Matrix!
Do not force me!
I don't want to banish you, Sky Lynx.
[electricity crackling]
[Sky Lynx yells]
[Sky Lynx grunts]
[resounding boom]
[theme music plays]
Teletraan-1,
can you confirm the Ark's location?
[Teletraan-1] Scans… inconclusive.
No stars, no planets,
nothing.
Like an anti- or un-space.
[console beeping]
Uh…
Optimus?
-[Prime] Sky Lynx.
-[Bumblebee] You know him?
He used to be an Autobot.
The bit-brain got himself banished
for trying to control the Matrix.
If this is indeed Sky Lynx,
then we are in the Dead Universe.
The what?
Alpha Trion used the Staff of Solus
to transport Sky Lynx here.
Sky Lynx would have stopped at nothing
to gain the power of the Matrix.
-[Sky Lynx] I…
-[all gasp]
[Sky Lynx] …would have stopped
at nothing to save Cybertron.
He can hear us?
[Sky Lynx] In this realm,
I hear all.
Sky Lynx,
I am Optimus Prime.
[Sky Lynx] Keeper of the Matrix.
[Prime groans softly]
What have you done to my crew, Sky Lynx?
I assure you, they're safe.
There in your chest,
along with your spark,
I sense the Matrix.
Are you worthy to hold such power?
[Prime] I can only strive
to be worthy of such power.
[Sky Lynx]
Then, in your effort and humility,
you are far more worthy than I ever was.
Why are you here?
[Prime] We are on a mission
to recover the Allspark.
The Allspark?
It's been taken from Cybertron?
But how?
[Prime sighs]
I am to blame.
Megatron
was going to use the Allspark
to purge Cybertron of Autobots.
In my haste to stop him,
the Allspark was lost
through a Spacebridge.
[Sky Lynx] The bearer of the Matrix
has failed Cybertron?
[Prime] I will recover the Allspark
and save our world.
What have you been doing here
for all this time, Sky Lynx?
I, too, have been fighting a great war.
With who?
[Sky Lynx] With myself.
-[electricity zapping]
-[Starscream groans]
[groaning]
What in the Celestial Spires is that?
[Megatron] That is all that remains
of your treacherous mistake.
[gasps] Megatron? [chuckles]
You're alive!
Uh, thank the Allspark!
-[Megatron grunts]
-[Starscream groans]
Did you really think those on my ship
would automatically be loyal to you?
-Off my bridge, you coward!
-[Starscream groans]
[Megatron growls]
[Starscream groans]
[pants] Lord Megatron…
[panting] I… I swear…
Off my bridge!
[Starscream pants]
Where is Prime?
Where is the Ark?
The Ark was drawn into the rift, Megatron.
The rift is closing!
Prime will not evade me again.
Take us in.
[dramatic music plays]
[electricity crackling]
[Megatron grunts]
[grunting]
[rumbling]
[sinister laughing]
The Dead Universe is unlike anything
you've experienced, Prime.
Vast.
Desolate.
To be stranded here
with nothing but my own thoughts,
all I wanted was to escape.
[roars]
But I didn't have the power
to break free of this dead place.
Surrounded by nothing,
all there was left to do
was truly examine myself.
It was the curse Alpha Trion had intended.
But maybe also the gift
he hoped I would find.
In the past,
I wished to possess the Matrix
for its power.
Now, here…
I am power.
[Prime] Alpha Trion would be disappointed
to hear the arrogance
that remains in your words.
You misunderstand, Prime.
I have been allowed
to find my full potential here,
but I have also been taught
my insignificance.
In other words,
I have learned my lesson.
My only true enemy…
is myself.
Alpha Trion once said that nothing
in the universe is more powerful
than our mind.
Here, in this place
where thought is power,
I have mastered mine.
[Prime] I am glad for you.
I no longer desire the Matrix.
Fate has, however,
brought you here
with something I desire more.
And what is that?
A chance at redemption.
Who are you?
It doesn't matter.
Should you succeed today,
I won't exist.
[growls] I'll wipe you from existence
here and now.
-[Galvatron grunts]
-[Megatron groaning]
[grunts] Always the rage.
-[Megatron grunts]
-Always the hate.
Hmm.
I will help you focus it.
I will guide you to your rightful destiny.
[Megatron grunts]
[grunts]
I'm here to change the future,
to change your destiny!
[Megatron growls]
I make my own destiny!
[Galvatron laughing] Yes!
Exactly.
[weapons firing up]
[fades to silence]
[Megatron] Where… Where is the Nemesis?
-I demand--
-[Galvatron] Ah, you fool!
You have no idea
what it took for me to get here.
You have no idea what's coming.
It is here
you must kill Optimus Prime.
I am here to help you.
[Megatron] I'm listening.
Let me help save Cybertron.
I can guide you,
protect you from your own mind.
I just ask that you take me with you.
[Prime] Alpha Trion banished you
to the Dead Universe
because he felt
you were a great threat to Cybertron.
Alpha Trion also believed
every living thing
has the potential for good…
[sighs]
…and the right at redemption.
I do not have the power
to leave this place myself,
but you and the Matrix of Leadership do.
I do?
If you can focus your mind,
if you can master more quickly
the discipline
it took me cycles to understand,
you can lead us to the Allspark
and far beyond.
But, at this moment,
deep inside,
you are lost in your own chaos,
Optimus Prime.
In order to master this reality,
you must learn
to control the chaos within yourself.
[Alpha Trion] Before me,
I see three of Cybertron's greatest,
themselves standing
at the dawn of a new era.
We will bring change.
We will bring good
till all are one!
[all together] Till all are one!
It's no wonder you're in such chaos.
You've lost brothers, mentors…
friends, conscripts…
and someone most dear to your spark.
[Prime] Elita.
[Sky Lynx] Your mind wanders
from what could have been
to what you fear most.
[intensifying rumbling]
Your thoughts are clouded with blame.
You blame yourself
for events under your control
and events completely out of it.
[Magnus groans]
You must regain who you are.
You must be one
with the Matrix once again.
For if you don't,
you will never escape this dead place
and save Cybertron.
[Prime] I…
understand, Sky Lynx.
[snarls] But you don't!
The future… is unwritten.
And before your journey is complete,
before the Matrix finds its next Prime,
you must stay on the path.
You must stay true
to whom the Matrix has chosen…
[explosions and rumbling]
[Sky Lynx]
…or a much darker future awaits.
[ominous music intensifying]
[music fades out]
Even in your darkest hour,
know that you can still save Cybertron.
Now it is up to you.
Focus.
Take us to the Allspark.
[whooshing]
[Megatron] Where exactly are we?
And where are we going?
In a sort of dead universe.
And you?
You live here in the Dead Universe?
I am from a place of only agony.
You must get your hands
on the Matrix at all costs.
The Matrix of Leadership?
You will kill Optimus Prime
and take the Matrix for yourself.
[Megatron] I don't trust you.
[Galvatron] Good.
Never trust anyone.
Prime was created to carry on a legacy
against those such as you…
those who would rise from the pit.
[spectators cheer and taunt]
[Galvatron] First lesson…
never trust anyone.
[Megatron grunts]
[Galvatron] Second lesson…
power… all power is yours.
Just like in the days in this arena…
-[Bot grunts]
-[Galvatron] …all you have is you.
-The only one you can trust is yourself.
-[crowd cheering]
[Megatron] This is where I rose.
This is where I was truly born.
[Galvatron]
In the anger and hatred of this place,
you found true power.
-[crowd continues cheering]
-[Megatron] You do understand.
[Galvatron growling] This…
[metal clangs]
[Galvatron] …is where we were born.
This is where we both rose to power.
And now…
I'm here to make sure
you never lose that power.
If this place empowers us both
and thought itself can be a weapon,
why do you need me?
I'm a slave to my timeline, even here.
That's why you need to learn now
before he comes for me,
before it's too late!
[Sky Lynx] Excellent, Optimus Prime.
Alpha Trion would be proud.
[Prime]
It would give Alpha Trion great joy
to know who you have become, Sky Lynx.
I will gladly take you with us.
I thank you.
Now, you must be only in this moment.
No regret of the past.
No fear of the future.
Only here. Only now.
Commune with the Primes.
Free us from this place.
Unleash the power of the Matrix.
[Prime yells]
[Galvatron] No! We're almost too late.
[grunts] We must target all weapons.
Have you learned nothing?
Conventional weapons are useless here!
Use your mind.
[growls]
[breathes deeply]
Use your hate, your rage.
Strike Optimus Prime out of the stars!
[Megatron growls]
[Megatron] Yes!
[Galvatron] Yes! Focus!
-Unleash a plague of hatred upon them.
-[rumbling]
[Galvatron] That is power.
-[hissing and crackling]
-[Galvatron] That is your power.
[electricity crackling]
[Megatron grunting]
[dramatic music plays]
Prime, we must go.
Now!
[Prime] Understood.
[electricity crackling]
Now!
[Megatron growls]
Death, Prime!
[Sky Lynx grunts]
[Sky Lynx groaning]
[electricity crackling]
Take the Ark!
Go, Prime!
Save Cybertron!
[Megatron groans]
Sky Lynx?
No.
[screams] No!
Go!
Get away!
[groaning and yelling]
Stop them!
No!
No.
[Unicron] You will suffer
for this moment of treachery.
No!
There's still a way.
There's still…
Use this.
[Galvatron groans in agony]
-[lights clinking]
-[mechanism clanks]
[Autobots groaning]
[Wheeljack grunts]
Optimus?
[Bumblebee groans]
What happened?
[Prime] At great cost…
we have been given the chance
to save our world.
[dramatic music crescendos]
[music fades out]
[theme music plays]